hello and welcome to the ipfs in web
browsers and GUI team weekly sync call
our guest starring David DF and the
dancing the dancing team lead
so today ladies and gentlemen we have a
fun packed agenda not least because the
GUI team are mostly all set to go there
in Porto it's very thing let me share my
screen and we'll get on with the show
what did that even mean okay can someone
volunteer to take notes that David is
volunteering thanks David around it's
very kind of the artist but your name
here because someone volunteers have
watch David s make sure he takes good
notes because his mind tends to one day
he's very busy
okay so now is your opportunity to add
things to the agenda if you haven't done
so already in the meantime while you're
thinking about your agenda pointers we
are gonna go and do a round of what I'd
done last week so I gonna be doing next
week it's the best um as is customary
libel is the most organized amongst this
which causes him the great honor of
going first why does your last week any
highlights for us yes my update is that
we planted another better or 5fs
companion with some fixes mostly fixes
and improvements and updates of
libraries so it would be very helpful if
you are using better channel to try it
out especially play with where do I play
with window ipfs interface check if you
have your if your apps work fine with it
and report any issues so far
no red flags and I plan to release it by
the end of this week hopefully we will
coordinate with where do i and J's ipfs
maybe we'll have another beta and switch
to the new version we'll see or maybe
we'll play it safe and that's mostly it
there is another small demo I wanted to
show you so the small demo is on the
screen and it's a PR not yet merged
companion but basically J's ipfs
progressed so nicely so right now I
don't have any note running on my
machine but if I switch to embedded
tears ipfs note running in memory in web
extension browser context it will
shortly connect to some good sub nodes
in a few seconds and you can see there's
open web UI option and if you open it
you can see that Jace ipfs node it's
accessed of our activist companion API
so basically you can use it just like
any other and very very nice setting
screen for in-memory node makes it much
more easy to experiment and tweak so
that will probably land when yeah it
will land when Jessica fires out point
thirty-four lands later this week or
next and everyone will be able to make a
better use of internal Jessica first
node and that's all on my end on the
next week I will be probably focusing on
shipping this to stable channel and I
also want to do some spelunking into the
chromium based brave built course
we may be able to get access to more
powerful api's by like whitelisting our
accession ID so that's that's all mined
super cool any super quick questions for
mutton No then good saving for saving
for afters and I will go next Monisha my
screen yeah that guy the most
interesting thing to demo is
unfortunately there was a nasty bug in
web UI that basically meant in Firefox
no in Chrome and Firefox we we were
flip-flopping around not being able to
add files by dragging and dropping on
the web UI which is obviously terrible
because that's one of its key flows and
the problem is around a guard condition
that we've got in the code base that is
checking for we occasionally get
truncated responses back from go ipfs
via the HTTP api when adding directories
sometimes there are fewer entries in the
response than expected this is an old
bug still needs to be fixed but in the
meantime we had a guard condition that
dealt with it but then when we change
the HTTP API things things are chip did
with broke file uploads it was a bit of
a deep dive into the code base to try
and figure out a solution that would
work for all the cases because you can
either upload a batch of files from a
file input where you can upload
directory verifier input or you can
upload a batch of files by dropping them
or you can upload a directory by
dropping it and they're all different
code paths and different the directory
drag-and-drop
in the web platform the api's for that
are still basically not officially SPECT
and each platform has slightly differing
interpretations of that so we had a sort
of shift in the and we had a shift in
the way that firefox and chrome
interpreted the dot WebKit relative past
properties that it appended to file
entries when swaggin drops but the good
news is now
is a better donor you should be able to
start an ipfs demon one of those one of
these Shazam it's connected Royals
let's find something I haven't uploaded
[Music]
so I've got like a directory with
structure and pictures and text in it
and I'm gonna drop it on my files and
bam it's working again so that's good
because that is a key feature and just
to show there's nothing up my sleeve I'm
gonna drop some text files on here as
well and they work too so that was the
key like file drops work to the
threshers didn't then we fixed that and
then directory got swept and files
didn't the key thing is now that we just
have a small tested library that counts
the number of directories we expect the
ipfs response to have created for us so
it just looks at all the paths and finds
all the unique directories that ipfs
will have to create to make that folder
structure exist so that when it checks
to make sure the response has haven't
rotated it gets the right answer and
there's a P R for that linked in the
notes other exciting things oh there's a
quick question from David is there a way
to tell how much pressure I am I taking
from my browser quota is there a way so
the question is kind of can I see stats
on repo space and yeah or even just like
like different machines will get
different browser quotas right OSE into
like the user should be able to tell oh
I cannot like add this gigabyte a file
because my brother's giving me like 300
no not currently that's a good idea
that's kind of related to using an
embedded case like defense yeah you're
talking about literally like adding the
file to my local one so that the know
that that is something that we
definitely need to do more work on
this work is very much your focus around
like the traditional web UI use case
which is like sending over HTTP to an
external node and as Lytle demoed like
talking directly to an embedded the BES
is new new new new experimental mode got
it into okay so if I'm gonna send
correctly what you're saying is that
there is those browser api's to check
how much quota we have like how much
fast pace we can take just like because
if we haven't used it yet because again
I give the the JSP first is very
bleeding edge but it says something that
we can provide to the user at some yeah
and related like we yeah being able to
find out whether you can like will we
can ask i CFS even if you weren't an
external well we can sort of skit
information around where your GC limit
is for like will this drag-and-drop take
you over your GC limit like extra extra
information that was kind of be more
advanced but it's still interesting to
know if you're about to drop a big data
set what else is going on so there's a
15-day we're all in so we spent the
morning just re going over like what we
try to a lot of the talk has been around
objectives and key results and roadmaps
and what we tried to do this morning was
like get it back to like what are the
things that excite us like why what's
been lost what's gone missing over the
last few months we're just like fixing
bugs and it's like you guys getting to a
point where stable so we've made a
document desserts like things that
excite us and things that we really
think that we should be focusing on
because they interest us and we think
they could have been most interesting to
the community and we've also got a list
of like healthy habits and things that
we want to make sure that we do more of
and things that we want to refrain going
forward I've got an agenda point for
that so dig into that more a bit later
one of my ok ours or beatings ok ours
for this quarter has been around pairing
with other other teammates so I've been
pairing with Terry on the mobile nav for
protocol which I'm not going to tell you
because though she was talked about that
I played with Porsche around like tacky
on CSS issues with a website to list out
some doubts
been working to Chris wearing he's
booting up to join the Kiwi team that's
very exciting and been talking to
candidates for the idea vest package
managers endeavor and the visual design
lead sort of like helping us make a
coherent visual design process across
all of our project that kind of thing oh
and someone for the in web browsers
justice light all night we're working
with and for producers I'm not going to
name any names but like there's movement
there like we're finding really great
people to work with next for me is I've
got an open PR for adding often self
hosted analytics which is looking great
I my next steps for that are actually
just around talking to Aaron and
infrastructure around how we want to
host if we're going to self host and
we're going to get lots of information
pouring into this database for
generating our analytics then I'm gonna
have a conversation with her about how
best to arrange that okay I'll come
after that and what I'm also gonna do
I'm gonna release I'm gonna well and
make sure that we get desktop released
with the certificate for Mac OS that was
supposed to happen last week but I just
think it's fine but we have everything
we need it's just just time to work it
into the build process and I'm gonna
refine the okay eyes on the road map
based on the work that we've done today
and based on all the feedback that I've
had over the last few weeks from
everyone so I'm doing that before the
end of the week and that is all from me
and I sure would you like to go next
Oreos I don't got any questions they
want to add I think David put something
in the chat there we have a bomb
Martin said we have a plan to create a
widget for repose storage information
and so like how big is your repo now
versus what is your storage limit this
is how what you like over or under that
threshold and automatically let the user
request the GC explicitly from the UI as
well they see no burning questions so
Allen sure would you care to go next
unmute yourself and give us your finest
words
sorry okay hi we try and do it I'm sorry
I've got a new screen and like I just
don't know what's going on anymore share
screen here we go that one sure is it
good yeah you're garish wallpaper it's
really helping what do you mean garish
I meant gorgeous good okay so really
quickly
I was on holiday last week so I've been
basically catching up with stuff monday
to wednesday I have done some things
things you should know about the IPO the
in-memory utility that it used to
explore is going away is this basically
created an instance of IP IOD that used
a Jase IVFs repo that is only based in
memory so you could use it as a
throwaway thing or in tests or whatever
but it's going away
so if you're using it then use the IP ID
and memory module instead it that's
exactly the same thing so you don't have
to worry about it and then the rest of
the time this week I've been working on
trying to get verified for release on
the thought it's very nearly done I've
just been working through the examples
today it has broke most of them
annoyingly and not because of the
breaking a bit
API changes it seems that like something
in webpack broke or changed which has
caused a lot of weirdness so I've
basically been updating webpack all day
which has been super dull but it's
nearly done I'm I have like I think four
more examples to do but then but then
it's sort of good to go and a release
and release candidate yesterday and
things looking good interrupt tests they
are so they're passing but occasionally
the PHP is like doing stalls and it has
a couple of bugs I think in there but
I'm gonna get this 0 4 out the door and
hope that the p2p gets both fixed as
soon as possible
because this has been going on forever
so yeah that's that's my plan I'm hoping
they all are we ready to go tomorrow and
yeah I've been merging in your poor
requests for updated web UI thank you
for those and yeah that's what I've done
next next up is like I said grease I
professed 0:34 and I've got some okay
are finalizing to do and I need to catch
up properly with the benchmarking stuff
I've just had a really great call with
Ron from near form on the benchmarking
stuffs just showing us how to write
tests and different Jess I professed
benchmarks we've got a new like
dashboard and it's shaping up to be
really cool and Hugo is currently trying
to plug it into our CI so that we like
we can track our performance in master
as well as in PRS and stuff so it's
super good news and really exciting and
once we've got it sort of ironed out and
ready to go I'll make a big shown dance
about it and and you can look into stuff
but yeah you are welcome to check it out
I set benchmarks that ipfs the team I
think yeah anyway so then god it's
Wednesday already so I'm not sure if
I'll definitely get a chance to do this
but the groundwork has been done for CID
base 32 version 1 you can now get you
know get the version 1 CID if you put in
as a version 0 and vice versa so that's
good
but now we need to do to do the switch
and change it to giving us back version
1 base value to CID by default and yeah
I was hoping to start a little bit of
work on that see what see where I'm
going to need to change what I'm going
to need to change and what I could
problems that could cause and cool
that's me questions for me just on a
related point to the the graph on a
dashboard for the JSF give us
benchmarking step
I'm also next to Hugo mr. the earth and
I am picking his brains about how we
might actually do the opt-in client-side
web usage analytics there's something
that we could import into profiler
dashboards as well so you can start to
see you know see the whole ipfs metrics
universe in one place that'll be super
cool
yeah grifone dashboards seem to be
really easy to kind of set up and use
and and really useful so yeah I'm pretty
impressive I've never I never heard of
it before but yeah circle the benchmark
stuff looks very cool to maybe Hugo will
tell us more about it soon but if there
isn't any burning questions for Alan
sure we should okay next up a hatch can
you go next yep hi everyone
I show you my screen now so in the last
week I've an exam which is not really
interesting it's important to mention
whenever you have a new translation for
a desktop search and simplified Chinese
I think I fixed a con monkey why related
to ipv6 URLs with where the IP is
weren't inside the square brackets and
the most interesting part is what I'm
working on now it's the context menu
under windows for advocacy so as you can
see desktop now if you look like right
click on file you click type FS please
ignore these window and the time it is
taking right now and yay to Saturday the
root of your em FS thingy world it
doesn't work with directories yet but it
feels fun in the next hour I prize
basically that's it I'm going to work on
this I will need some help for my quest
in Linux because I don't know how this
will work on Mako syndrome in the next
and yep that's it for this week
Henrique keeps telling us that it's like
context money stuff is working and then
it's like oh but you have to do it for
OS X and so oh I see I see any questions
all right next
it is Hugo fanciness to the earth
and yes you just share the screen okay
so I did apologize on multi-action seem
to remove callbacks and it's all
promises now it should be useful for the
exaggerator's work also the sync with
the Alex from near forum about the CI
stuff and I mentioned and trying to
integrate everything into our CI
prototypes and we did I did an update to
the prototypes itself it basically
immersed everything into a single PR so
it's easier to iterate on both because
everything is this aside from the actual
yarn all configuration everything is the
same so it's it's easier to iterate a
bit on on those I can show you a little
bit
so the github see is everything is
passing aside from Windows don't know
why some time out it's always different
so it's kind of hard to make it work but
still this is running inside a Mac
laptop inside a vagrant machine so it's
probably not the best of the scenarios
to run it so yeah the browser tests were
failing right now it was because of the
preload stuff I needed to disable
browser security stuff so we can do
course requests and Firefox still
failing because of some weird issue that
happens only in CI locally if I run
that's inside the same docker image it
runs perfectly on CI it fails so
something should still remain on Travis
basically the same thing with those
files
oh here Windows fails because Travis
asked as this great option to delete all
the caches but you can click it as many
time as you want which does nothing at
all so that's why these wheels are
failing so yeah that's a situation right
now I can show you also the dashboard
for the near forum benchmarks
integrations with this dashboard we can
at the end the last row of the pipeline
we'll probably the benchmarks Joel and
it will trigger a run the trigger is
just making an HTTP request and it will
output an URL URL being something like
this I suppose this is the ipfs master
sha and this is the poly quest shot and
we can inside the the CI we have both of
them so we can build this URL and we
cannot pull it or in some way create a
comment on the pr using the github API
but the main thing is we can create this
URL and we can output it and anyone who
wants to check out all the mesh marks
compared to like the PR which marks in
the browser and the master which must
compare to another they can so that
would be go to us inside the CI next
yeah I'm continuing with the bundle
sighs pr's and flex and switch are
killing me completely
I'm almost giving up on that thing
switch it's it's really complicated now
with the the state machine really aren't
you know if you get too cold
the stack is like a hundred lines long
it's really hard to understand what's
going on and it's all events it's like
backbone all over again so it's it's
really complicated I'm hoping to have
this figured out the Jacobs help by the
end of the week but I don't know because
they are on the the team week they don't
have much time child me out but let's
see so next I will try to finish the
disintegration the CI prototypes the
bottle size PRS hopefully now was also
wanted to finish prototype for a new
browser data start without label AJ is
that I already have like a prototype
from like five months ago I would like
to finish that and see if we can make it
the default one because from my
previously much Mart's it's actually
faster and simpler to to use anyone has
any questions no questions okay I think
I jumbled up the order a little bit but
uh switching back to Kyoko how you doing
Shane's game when you go all right can
you guys see so last week like yeah I
took some time trying to fix to get
authors and files basically only talked
about this
I took some time trying to figure out
but I had asked for help I need to live
then I basically were around the context
menu to show what it was
so basically someone raised an issue
that should be cool so from the context
menu just for your information this is a
context meaning it would be good to just
right-click a file so that's when this I
know this seems pretty basic but if I
had to do a big reflector to the code
because the logic what this was like a
standalone opponents but I had to
decoupled everything so I can basically
be able to open this ratchet another
thing we we made was in the house review
mode see or unable to make any kind of
operations that's right now we can
basically we have the same options as we
have in the browser so we can just
delete rename unless it's like violence
whatever we want in the in the top with
you basically yes yeah
I also released this morning a new
personal view I because the version
before I released every question I
basically made yet and others towards
but I broke anything
but now only two kind of messy and
version is over for the next week I'm
going to push for the amenities you have
an issue with some topics some of them
are already I have to check them because
I read again and again and and probably
in wiki once help doing the integration
in Mac OS good no questions so Terry
temple and share
so everything okay
well I won't show you anything so my big
projects lately has been Kitty and proto
school out the door so there Zack helped
me put together a video of just a kind
of presentation part of that that's
quite reusable which I put up on that
ipfs youtube channel since we don't
really want to associate proto school
with protocol lab specifically and so
the link is in the notes there I could I
don't know if it's the seem that we must
equip to help but I am confused and Olli
already tried to help in this issue that
I honestly don't have enough knowledge
to understand the answer there's a
problem in proto school where once you
submit a solution there's a view in my
PLD Explorer link I don't know yet if
it's all of the links or just this
particular CID or whatever that's not
working but when it goes I PLD explore
it just spins it doesn't produce
anything I don't understand that I feel
the Explorer enough to solve that on my
own so if anyone would like to volunteer
to talk me through some of the basic
concepts about what's happening there
and that would be really helpful and
then finally at the risk of being the
overeager volunteer for all the things
I'm I'm the most in the firing line for
I got the Explorer not looking okay
sounds good
I don't thank you and stuff that's
coming up that's most relevant to this
team is Michael has built
haven't proof yet but he claims to have
built the functionality that will make
proto's will work with files like make
you be able to upload files and then
move them around there and that is the
underpinnings for me being able to build
a lesson on the file API which I think
will be more compelling into the worlds
and the dag API because it's more kind
of real-world in these case as that's
not going to be super immediate but as I
get into it I'm sure I'll be coming back
and looking at the resources you guys
have already put together to try to
teach myself about it first and then
figure out what the what the formatting
is so I'll keep you guys posted on that
as I go and if anybody has any
suggestions let me know I'm not looking
at the thing right now did I write
anything else no we'll just pretend
those format good sign questions here on
mute volley
I'm a meat literally I got someone to
elbow me thanks to you he got some cool
information and mouth in everyone okay
that's right I thought just quickly you
had some screen problems so I thought I
would share the little better work that
we just did oh that's what I forgot
since I'm not looking at the list yes
Ollie and I had a lovely performance
session and I still need to work on that
oh so we've got a mobile nav and if you
look at it regular screen it's regular
and if you look at it at mobile it's
mobile and it looks real nice and
there's a nice idea and there's an
in-between the medium which we have
scrolling to do is see oh yes the case
where yeah no it's not lit but it
doesn't seem worth like truncating
everything yeah I think yeah so helping
how can Ollie achievers okay arts had
nothing to do with my need for
assistance at all I am selfish to a
fault yes
[Music]
that every party that is a full round of
well I done last week what I gonna do
next we called on everyone
I hope you've updated yes welcome your
question is irrelevant thank you
my question is simple so the project
working group like one of the key ones
is getting the working groups on and I
know that
do you have why is your thinking there
in my yeah much formal update on that is
that I was hoping to work through that
with Chris wearing when he started I
don't know if you're if you're feeling
it's more urgent then we can make time
for it but if it can wait a couple of
weeks then that would be kind of a nice
easy thing you to get him started on
awesome yep but it's really like it's
not super urgent you just like with wave
to be a high value and so maybe just
like leaving at notes on the issue if
you don't like we will she something
Bernie designed every week I my cooking
at nervous you wondering I will I will
add a note to the issue no worries thank
you so much any other general note says
everybody added anything they want to
the agenda alone has a secret okay well
I'm gonna show me scream real quick
because Allen secret is gonna get the
headline slot at the end of the session
in the meantime I I mean it's no
knowledge that the GUI team is having
some team together time and I want you
to know that this has been hard work
like yoga and I didn't sleep till
midnight we've been smoking herb had the
crash and it's so burn it was injury but
what we've been mostly focusing on is
trying to capture their like what are
the healthy habits that we need to
reinforce over the next year and what is
the list of things that we think are
most exciting for us to work on and that
we think the community needs within the
community we will get behind so I'm
gonna just quickly whiz through that
this this is its first public outing and
it hasn't really been reviewed or sanity
check but it's a work in progress and
it's like the output of our morning
session throw on it to talk through it
with with other stakeholders so wait
like the things that we think are the
most exciting I want to see people's
faces in case anyone's like freaking out
no everyone seems pretty happy okay yep
I can see you see some of you this that
annoying things we can't actually see
them there so like things that we think
about saying better kind of like in our
flight path already desktop OS
integration this is definitely like key
but there's this exciting items hack is
already getting the context menu answer
ipfs working and we know that we've got
some like some general working notes on
how we're gonna get mounting your em FS
in as using fuse to mount it into your
file system so your operating systems
file browser which we think I'll just
make the whole like process of adding
and exploring your repo a lot a lot more
intuitive to people of you might not
want to utilize seeing it in your friend
system is clearly like my professors
getting closer to being ubiquitous so
that's super exciting the IP fest scheme
handler is a kind of interesting one
like if you if we can teach operant
systems like what to do when it sees a
URL that begins with open fest : /i that
super exciting there's some open
questions around the desktop integration
like how to add things but this is more
of a design question that we're going to
work on outside of this call so with the
conversation of like the scheme handler
so like what should then operate this
and do with and I get this URL this led
on to talking about the ipfs Explorer so
right now the files view in web UI is
limited to the em FS is limited to a
local mutable view of the repo but a UX
challenge we have today is if you type
IP FS add files at the command line and
then try and see them in what D while
you can't see them because I've got has
ADD is
adding things to the to your em FS so
there's this kind of divide and there's
also like a cognitive like educational
challenge or I think over time we're
going to want to find like a
fundamentally better solution for ipfs
but in the meantime we want the web UI
to explain that there is a block store
with millions of see IDs in and there
isn't just the subsection of it that you
can alias to your NFS
so we're imagining of a level above the
root of the NFS that you can get to but
like the naive implementation of that
would just be like listing out thousands
of C IDs which would be super unfriendly
to users so I'm imagining like the level
above the roof to to be an onboarding
step where it explains they're good to
cut it's a much more it like it pretends
to be showing you the infinite plane of
IP FSC IDs but actually is just
highlighting some interesting ones like
it's gonna highlight the current cid to
the root of your an offense and somehow
visually quite clearly like with you
know a little home icon next to it'll
somehow be like here's the ID that's
interesting it's the roof of your MF s
currently and then like here's a CID for
that I can just read me or some like
other like choice ones and then give you
access to features like being able to
run I didn't get directly from the
browser or I get a scan or something
like that and also it's been if we have
a space for that and it's a place where
if you click on an arbitrary of your
fess URL then it gives us some UI
landing-place
say okay desktop should open the files
viewer that dispute arbitration is
because right now the whole thing is
arranged around showing you paths within
MMS but if you just placed in a CID link
that's not necessarily even in your
local repo so it gives us a place and a
visual gives us a user flow for showing
arbitrary I get this content and then we
kind of got more excited like wait if we
do that then we're kind of like just a
step below
building like the ipfs browser and like
at that point we put a pin in it and
they were like yep that is kind of I
think what we want to do is start with
the educational version but build it
with
being mindful that like ultimately what
we're trying to create there is like
show you I think that content and
preserved address address in some visual
form I thought David this might be
triggered at that point so I'm ready
paced question David DF please chest so
this is really exciting I like the
direction he's going I would recommend
really really reevaluate the role of
amethyst in users maybe to me although I
was here first what I what I meant to
suggest is right now there is this like
amethyst is a world separated from my
PFS files to I or I did very well that
there is a thing that is a blog store
and there's a MF s it would be I think
useful to reconsider like MF s spinning
as a whole and to also add to the mix
the file store so today when a user
pulls a file for my ipfs it gets into
this ipfs repo and then if the user
wants to consume the file in some
program you have to pull it from the
repo like the desktop folder or whatever
which means that now there is a
duplicate file if the user makes a
change that file now that user has to
edit semi-fast again and so it might be
super convenient for users to have like
an MF s path mounted or I just watching
some local folder the same way that we
have the Downloads folder or if you are
familiar with or any clients like the
door client always has a folder wait
first for files until it could be the
like the MF s route slash something like
ipfs folder that appears on the user's
downloads folder and so if you use it
dries and drops off out there it gets
automatically like Lisa's like
accessible to my PFS but it doesn't get
to tweak it and it doesn't get copied to
the repo using the phone store is
everyone to move with a pass or or just
like throw some I'm interested in what
we are we saying like setting up some
way of watching an an OS level directory
and mirroring it yeah so first or does
that right like so fast or you can say
hey I have this folder already or IDs
network-attached storage is Nass we the
terabyte of files and I don't want to
copy them to my local machines repo
because then I would have one terabyte
plus one terabyte and all of the
overhead of like storing all the
intermediary nodes and so what the file
store feature does investors just go
straight there right creates the the or
gets the CDs creates the the metadata
and then stores that and then it knows
okay someone is looking for this ID I
need to look into that folder on that
nice box and this way like you don't
duplicate the information that's much
clearer now that's the fact that we can
plug out different implementations of
the block store and one of them is like
files like don't store this yes yeah
exactly
and so for a user it's just like
convenient unfamiliar I can anyone that
is familiar with a Dropbox app or Google
Drive they know these things all the
apps there is now this folder that just
magical if I drag and drop it appears on
my Google Drive it appears on my Dropbox
the same way if I don't know the torrent
I know that is on this folder if I
remove it from here that way it doesn't
get shared on parents anymore so I think
that pattern although not necessarily
the most obvious one is the one that
uses I'm most familiar with
nowadays and there is something that
would help us also to avoid duplicating
all the information all the time which
is something that happens using just
like add and get comments right you both
add it to the repo and you both add it
to some other place on your file system
they are very true I think I'm gonna
need to unpack well I think I've
understood from that on an issue and
then Paigey to see if you can add some
more details sounds good
other things that we knew were exciting
so the hosting websites a good clear
story for hosting websites and an app to
support it like hosting and updating and
like it's easy to host websites on my
PFS what's not easy right now is HTTP
domain fallback DNS link updating the
whole store if you want to actually have
like a really good with HTTPS and a full
back domain like the certificate works
and but you still want like to rely on
peers to host it and Central Gateway to
deal with Weebly doe-eyed if installed
that's still currently quite difficult
so but what I kind of surfaced when we
had this conversation was every time
this conversation comes up like it's
exciting but there's so many variables
and opinions about how to do websites
well that I think we are going to focus
on this but we're gonna push it to at
least q2 and spend some time this
quarter pinning down some of the
variables some of the unknowns some of
the user flows that we're talking about
it's it's I think it's quite a clear
project but it's like where should we
divide this what I want to spend a
little bit of time focusing on and I
want to do that as a background task
this quarter so that we don't just like
I think to do it well we're gonna have
to as a team focus on it pretty solidly
for a whole quarter so I'm not gonna
focus on that this quarter I'm gonna ask
GUI team to spend much energy on that
but I think in the background we need to
be working on an issue where we start to
talk to stakeholders and users who have
a vested interest in doing this
get clear about what it really needs
exciting but unfortunately pause for a
few quarters and it much easier win is
to bundle up all the work we've done
already as something that we referring
to as create ipfs app so essentially
just a fork of create react app that
includes jace IPS that includes our ipfs
Redux bundle that knows how to find the
best available IP FS in your pile and
ipfs CSS and has a shiny initial like it
scaffolds out a shiny landing page
that's like Jaso TFS is running and
connect the two ends ears and just a
very like it's not it's not a start
it's like a command line that gives you
scaffolding that you then fork and take
off and start building your app from and
it's just a way of for us it's a way of
putting a more like user facing product
on our work that we're going to be doing
to create a component library and make
better documentation around the style
guides it's like that that that we can
also incorporate them all into this app
scaffolding tool and then we think
that's you know that's actually quite
small bird a small chunk of work that
will release quite a major excitement
and that's already useful like I know
that I'm the DVC
are generating demo apps all the time
and I've sinned petrol run create act
react app and then have to import a
bunch of things to get started so like
immediately I've got a I've got a either
I see a question from David dear this is
for like really awesome ideas and that's
like intuitively I think like they will
create a lot of value the the thing I
want to bring up is evil so it seems
like it is a long list of ideas we all
it and so one of the things that I have
suggested to other working groups is to
use the ipfs comedy event that they're
coming at least coming this year as kind
of like a prioritization function like
if ipfs kampf were to happen tomorrow
like what would be the messages I don't
really think that you want to take it to
the whole community fortunately it's a
tomorrow you actually are like five and
off lunch and so one of the things that
you want to polish finish to create that
when birth casted in that channel that
venue will then enable more people to do
laps will I profess or my contributors
to join the grid in etc so sooo what I'm
saying actually say is consider very
carefully the amount of time that you'll
available till then and perhaps make the
hard decision of like focusing on a few
things really really hard and like
housing others just for the sake of
using a moment as like a moment to
define a new baseline for the entire
community here's the things that you can
trust
Anton absolutely that's yes the the mid
here Spectre IVFs company is definitely
it's a good forcing function I do do the
things that are going to generate a good
play solid base for its to go forwards
on aa question Terry chat box please
statement
speaking of ipfs conf if you have
workshop content you're building there's
any of it appropriate to build in proto
school form at the end absolutely you
will be pleased to know is it towards
the bottom of this list in the healthy
habits section we've got part of like
discussing component libraries and
extracting and polishing up what we've
already done you'll see the extract test
then where possible create a proto
school tutorial just so I don't want to
take up too much time we're running now
and I want the time for questions if
they're only bi-directional file-sharing
is an idea that libel reminded us of has
been around for a while now we've got
demos of it it's functionality that's
totally supported we've got this shared
I did this thought I outside we plan to
do work on it to have some decent
infrastructure around it so that it has
a really good quality of service this is
like the idea of as David said like what
are the things that we can do some work
on before the middle of the year that
leaves us with like just a better
ecosystem and I think making sure that
we've got a clear pattern of how to
support a good decentralized sharing
service that has just the few bits of
interchangeable in structure that will
make the experience better and
explaining why those infrastructure
pieces exist and how you might run your
own is key and then once we've got that
if there's time left and available
people then that would be the app where
we might talk about like okay so in
default you drop files you share a link
with someone and they can get the
snapshot of the files but it would be
nice to have a big toggle switch that's
like enable collaborative playlists and
and then it's like it's not just a
snapshot files it's like you are
creating a space for however whoever you
share the link with to be able to add
additional files to it so it's like
have your your big party wedding and
then you Cheryl if people say like add
your files to this website and it's just
community generated link shared files
page we now become the dough healthy
habits well fundamentally we want to
encourage more open source contributors
we think this project is really cool and
I'm surprised that we're not fending off
all kinds of internet folks feeling just
like throwing ideas Alice and offering
to change the code base in arbitrary
ways or provide really good useful
improvements features and fix it so we
can clearly be doing something more to
be improving that and so like one things
that we were talking about before this
is like this cool isn't really about
project management this call is like
surfacing for the community and for
other working groups what we most the
most interesting thing we'll be working
on and what the most interesting thing
we're going to be working on next like
as a more is oh like a call out to the
to the key to say like over the next
week we're going to be focusing on this
so if you have opinions and care about
this subject like here's how you get
involved and it isn't supposed to be
like the project management systems like
I think I just need to get better at
that out-of-band like we shouldn't have
to have a which is called to do project
management which means just it's simpler
things like waffle boards and prioritize
lists like project management ultimately
boils down to like knowing what the
tasks are and what the priority is and
we shouldn't need to use the weekly call
for that though it all can be a much
more like welcoming hey here's what's
going on and so I hope that you felt
like the call today has been that
question from Terry Cooper I wanted to
point out that there's been a suggestion
for proto school that we add a closing
page to each tutorial that's like a next
step so optional like you want to learn
more about this thing go here you want
to contribute to something using this
feel you just learn to fill cure so if
you're looking for more contributors to
this kind of stuff we should think about
if there's anything you want to surface
and those I will paste the link to that
issue in case you have ideas on
that is super helpful could you add that
to the document as well thank you very
much but that's a great idea other
healthy habits
there's just having one day together and
me running she had half a day together
and it's surfaced a bunch of stuff
really quickly whereas in previous
quarters it's kind of felt like the okay
our discussions have taken a long time
and they've been fruitful but it was
slow going and felt like admin whereas
doing it in person has felt fun and the
list we kind of really believe in and
we've got a lot of nuance very quickly
about why we think things are important
and we've bounced ideas off each other
in a way that hasn't happened as
naturally previously so I haven't run
this past David Diaz yet but there's a
proposal that the GUI team would like to
meet for like one to two days around
each okay our boundary and we're kind of
talking about portal has been being
quite a useful middle ground although it
has sort of ignored the fact that Lida
lives in Poland so we kind of need to
think about that but there is certainly
a gravity well of people here I think
wrist wearing is talking about moving in
that direction so it's all very exciting
there is something in the chat there
David did you want to say anything oh I
mean that's a great idea I love it like
I packed weeks we're touching them
together going to conferences together
all right
like one of our most powerful techniques
techniques do you like to meme transfer
and just like increase the share
business I mean like so far there hasn't
been any proposal that has been blocked
off like people meeting or going to a
conference and so I always encourage all
the working groups to leverage that more
use that more maybe sometimes it's
fortuitous Lisbon I believe Chris will
actually move e to my house for well so
like you could find him there but like
sometimes it might be some conference if
you want to go like yeah like it is it's
totally fine totally fair and and I
agree it's something very very healthy
for people like to meet each other catch
up have fun
think about new ideas get me
you potential collaborators or excuse
errs yeah go for it like that there is
no no walkers hmm okay it has certainly
felt really positive thank you for
support in that matter next uh Creek
library talk about for ages kind of know
what we're doing certainly gonna keep
Chris wearing up for some other thinking
as well but the key part was also
wherever it's something more of the
plumbing of how you say add files in the
browser to a thing like we should just
be like it seems silly to do all the
work to understand how to do it and then
not so like just bake it just put some
words top and bottom and be like here's
the code sample that we think best
represents how in a browser today you
can add a directory by drag-and-drop and
that could be a pro school tutorial or
at least some kind of some guide that
hangs off pro school things like that
and the thing that has been unanimously
positive is like I've only done two
sessions but the pairing is going well
and but what is what's happening and
what I see from self from Terry what's
happening is I'm I'm sort of passively
learning what people are working on as
well and I think that's really useful
because you know we can do these calls
and like listen in but like helping
someone with a specific problem it's
like there's no nothing compares for
like getting that level of understanding
about what someone's working on just
like having that deep dive with someone
to like get a thing fixed and I think
it'll just like what I'm good at so it's
part of the GUI teams okay as for this
quarter and I intend to keep it part of
the GUI teams what I hope to do is keep
telling everyone it's great so that
other teams think of deliberately making
time for it and they're okay I was
because for people like Terry like she's
a good person and she doesn't want to
take us to much of other people's time
and there's a definitely like a human
social saying that if people don't
officially make time for a thing then it
feels like too much of an ask like you
want to you don't want to run it on
Stowe's so that's that's going well and
and definitely like for the GUI team it
has a very positive like it's not purely
a generous act like we also want to
teach people how we may
user interfaces so that we spend less
time fixing bugs in other people's user
interfaces that are done in a totally
different way we want to share the means
of of how we go about things but we also
want to figure out what's missing from
our pile of resources that would be
beneficial to the organization as a
whole
Terry shuttle two quick questions one is
where do you want me to go to ask for a
pair programming help is there a
procedure I'm supposed to be following I
just like dumped it in Lobby because I
had no idea this is the killer question
like yeah I mean it's the cobbler shoes
we spend all our time making web apps
and user interfaces and there's no
simple like requestor thing but I think
it's like there might be a repo with
issues on so we can least track how many
we've done and write up some notes about
what happened just so like capture if
other groups to see but it's TBC but I
want to okay I want to create a process
for it that's that's visible to the
organization and somewhere we can kind
of capture the learnings that come out
with them okay and then questions slash
offer would anyone like to watch me in
real time try to teach myself the file
API using the contents of here websites
feel free to say no maybe you could just
I can just show the questions later
that's fine it's um the offer of
watching you in real time to me is
Fallon if that is that giant yes for me
yeah it looks like a giant restroom
Allen yeah he'd love watching people
program all right I will
I won't be in touch Allen when I'm ready
to start thinking about doing that
to clarify for folks with maybe a little
less context on this call I think what
you're saying is their programming not
creepy watching no I'm not talking about
their programming I find out well no you
know like when you ask me to do the UI
test and like oh cool product so I'm
going to have to use something you guys
have created to learn about the file API
so if you want to watch me use whatever
teaches change materials you've already
created to learn enough to create my
tutorial a usability test that VMA yes
yes well have you changed your mind Am I
it's just that I have a clearer
understanding of what you're offering
but Allen's already said yes Alan is
that what you thought I meant already
yeah I think so and it's relevant to me
because if you're using the files API
and you don't understand it then it
needs to be better
alright folks I need to jump to the next
session
yeah it was really great seeing you so
much produce Carl that's okay we're over
we're over time or over time as well so
unless there's any burning questions I
think we're going to wrap it up
what's our and secret oh my god I've got
a secret ok bye David you don't get to
here see you have a nice meeting Alan ok
you need to I'm sure right ok sure this
sure so Hugo has done loads of good work
and it's not even finished yet
but the latest release of ipfs HDTV
client which has some of the good bundle
sighs PRS in in it is like 27% smaller
than the previous version I'm talking
about yeah one of these anyway it's
super small now and exactly the same
thing for the next release of ipfs 0:34
is 20% smaller already not even finished
all of the work and so when that's all
done and we could be song announced
about it and probably your movie go out
in the release notes for the next
release yeah just to say thanks Hugo mr.
das you've done an amazing job and I can
see the I can see the rewards already
Hugo mr. Bierce he so fancy
all right unless there's any other
business it's five minutes past I'm
gonna let you get on with your other
business this has been the weekly in web
browsers and GUI teams thing cool see
you at the same time same place next
week
[Music]